# SPECIAL OLYMPICS STUDENT DATABASE
## Northside ISD
A Collaboration between the departments of Special Education and Academic Technology

**Project Lead:** Angie Cranham, Special Education Adapted Physical Education, 210-397-2406, [angie.cranham\@nisd.net](mailto:angie.cranham@nisd.net)

**Author of scripts, formulas, & queries:** Alvaro Gomez, Academic Technology Coach, 210-363-1577, [alvaro.gomez\@nisd.net](mailto:alvaro.gomez@nisd.net)

**Background:** This project is meant to facilitate the organization of student data that is collected in a GoogleSheet. The data is then used to generate reports that are shared with the Special Olympics coaches and volunteers. The data is collected by the Special Education Adapted Physical Education (APE) teachers and uploaded to the GoogleSheet. The students are then organized into days, heats, lanes for the annual Special Olympics event. The data is also used to generate reports that are shared with the Special Olympics coaches and volunteers. The reports are generated by running functions within this Apps Script Project.

**Implementation Tasks:**
- [ ] 1. Create a Google Drive folder to organize the database and reports. Currently, a Google Drive Folder called APE Special Olympics Project was created to organize the needed template files (https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1amRAgl9agb3I2zrDXuISJFOSuvw6iGFa?usp=drive_link).
- [ ] 2. Create nested folders to keep the files organized:
    (1) Day Spreadsheets:
        (a) Day 1 Database
        (b) Day 2 Database
        (c) Day 3 Database
        (d) Day 4 Database
        (e) Day 5 Database
        (f) Day 6 Database
    (2) Labels
        (a) Consolidated Labels - Day 1
        (b) Consolidated Labels - Day 2
        (c) Consolidated Labels - Day 3
        (d) Consolidated Labels - Day 4
        (e) Consolidated Labels - Day 5
        (f) Consolidated Labels - Day 6
        (g) Prelim Labels Day 1
        (h) Prelim Labels Day 2
        (i) Prelim Labels Day 3
        (j) Prelim Labels Day 4
        (k) Prelim Labels Day 5
        (l) Prelim Labels Day 6
    (3) Reports - (https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1bXDXyWz8lwcFygs1TbXONoGmfS9Z1yW9?usp=drive_link). The following GoogleDocs serve as templates for the reports that are generated when their associated functions are run:
        (a) Field Condensed List - Females
        (b) Field Condensed List - Males
        (c) Field Heat Sheets - Scorecards - Females
        (d) Field Heat Sheets - Scorecards - Males
        (e) Medical Release Alphabetical List by Campus Report
        (f) T&F Alphabetical List by Campus
        (g) Track Condensed List - Females
        (h) Track Condensed List - Males
        (i) Track Heat Sheets - Females
        (j) Track Heat Sheets - Males
    (4) Testing Files
    
- [ ] 3. After the eight GoogleDoc templates are created, get the document IDs from each one and copy them over to their corresponding variable in the Global Variables file in this project.
- [ ] 4. Set a trigger to run the function onOpen(), found inside the Menus.gs file of this project, when the spreadsheet is opened.
- [ ] 5. Set a trigger to run the function insertFormula(), found inside the Age.gs file of this project, when the spreadsheet is edited.
